[MUSIC]
Let's talk a little bit about how to set
up your Raspberry Pi when you first get it
and how you start using it.
Step one, first thing you're gonna
wanna do is plugin the monitor and
plugin a keyboard and a mouse.
That's the easiest way to set this thing
up is to use it as a regular laptop,
desktop.
You can do it other ways, but
this is by far the easiest way to go.
So get a monitor, plug it into
the HDMI and get a keyboard and
a mouse hopefully and
plug them into the USB ports.
Those are your interfaces to the device.
So you'll be able to set it up using
the monitor, keyboard and mouse, so
you start with that.
Then before powering it on,
you need to get an operating
system on the Raspberry Pi.
Now when you get this
Raspberry Pi initially,
it doesn't have an operating
system built into it.
It needs one though,
it needs some operating system to execute.
So now, it has a micro SD card slot.
So you're gonna get a micro SD card and
you're gonna put the operating system onto
that micro SD card, that is your goal.
There are several way to do that,
but that's your goal.
So you need to get the OS
image onto to micro SD.
Now how do you do that?
How you do that depends on what you
got when you bought the Raspberry Pi?
So how do you install
the operating system on there?
So the easiest thing to do is to use
this software, new out of box software.
NOOBS as it's called.
This is from Raspberry Pi,
so it should come bundled.
So if you buy the Raspberry Pi as I did,
it came bundled with an SD card, micro SD.
Then it will be pre-installed on your
micro SD, which is of course, easiest.
If it's not, if you didn't get it
pre-installed on the micro SD,
then you have to buy our micro SD card and
put NOOBS on there.
Now you can download NOOBS,
you got the website up there.
You can download NOOBS from
the Raspberry Pi website.
So if you had to do that,
if it's not pre-installed,
you're gonna have to take your micro SD
card, you're gonna have to format it.
In fact, format is typical.
You're gonna have to format it and for
that, you'll need a SD card reader.
Now some computers, some desktops
have slots just for SD cards.
One of mine doesn't.
So you have to buy a reader, but I think
it cost, I paid 10 bucks for this thing.
For mine, it's a little device,
I put my micro SD in there and
then it has a USB interface and
I plug the USB into my computer.
So you can get something like that or
it might be built-in to your desktop or
laptop, whatever it is.
You plug that into your computer and
then you format the thing.
Once you format it, then you download
NOOBS from the Raspberry Pi website,
you extract its archive.
So basically, if you're on a desktop
you double-click on it, it'll extract.
Hopefully, automatically,
if you have the software built-in or
you'll have to get some
extraction software like 7-Zip.
I don't buy, I get for
free application called 7-Z-I-P.
7-Zip, but you can download that and
extract it and
then you get the image and
then you just put that on the SD card.
So once that's on the micro SD card,
then you have to the micro SD card and
plug that it into your Raspberry Pi.
Now once you plug the micro SD
card into your Raspberry Pi and
then it has the operating system on it,
then you power up the Raspberry Pi.
So you plug it into the power.
Now, NOOBS will start running.
So on the screen, you'll see some text and
images and so on.
But eventually, you'll get NOOBS.
And NOOBS is what you see at the bottom
there is what NOOBS looks like,
the window that it pops up.
So, it pops up a window that basically
gives you a list of choices of operating
systems to install.
Now NOOBS comes with maybe
a couple of operating systems.
Raspian, these are all
Linux distributions.
Raspian, arch,
a bunch of different Linux distributions.
It'll give you a list
of Linux distributions.
Now if you're connected to the network,
it will give you a long list.
Right now, let's assume you're not,
cuz I wanna get to the network
connection activity later.
But if you were connected to the network,
it will give you a long list,
because it will allow you to download
a bunch of different Linux distributions.
But if you're not
connected to the network,
it will only give you a short list, which
includes the ones that are part NOOBS.
And Raspian is the one
that says recommended,
that's the one you should take.
So go with Raspian.
Raspian is a Linux distribution.
It's a Raspberry Pi version
of the Debian distribution.
Debian is a popular distribution.
So get Raspian, so select that and
then it'll install it on your micro SD and
so NOOBS is pretty easy to use.
It'll install it, you get a choice,
you select Raspian and that should be it.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]